1.) Software testings aim is to provide code is of high quality with no bugs and logical 
logical errors.


testing type :
2.)manual testing : all the test cases are written by the tester and tested.
3.)automatic testing : write scripts and runs standardized applications.


testing methods :
4.static method : before executing the source code it is done that is without 
executing it does so by analysing the code against pre set of coding rules(sonarqube).
5.dynamic method : It happens during the exection of the code and identifies 
the vulnerabilities because it also looks at the codes integration with 
other databases,servers and services it happens in testing environment.

testing approaches :
6. black box:tester doesnt know the internal structure of what the application
 is testing.
7. white box:tester  know the internal structure of what the application
 is testing
8. gray box:both above


testing levels :
unit testing : each test cases is tested separately
integration testing : whole functionality is tested together
system testing : whole system is tested as together
acceptance testing: requirements of the clients are met


SONAR QUBE
its a static analysis code tool which is used to :
1. find errors earlier in the development
2.detects the complex code and suggests the simpler code
3.finds security error ex : if some variables like password are given in 
txt format
4. it supports more than 20 programming languages and checks best coding practice
is used
5.can create project specific rules


technical debt : for a problem there will be a easy solution and a complex solution.
and if you choose a complex solution then there is a possibility of additional rework
at later time which costs much more because the whole project has to be understood 
again and redesigned, and in case of the complex solution this technical debt will
be less and sonarqube will also calculate this technical debt. 


what is sonar qube : sonarqube is static testing analysis tool software it is used for
1. potential bugs
2. Code defects to design inefficiences
3. code duplicates(reduces memory).
4. Excess complexity.


plugins : sonar qube plugin

manage jenkins -> configure system -> sonar qube name and ip->sonar qube server 
sonar qube account number and password

global tool configuration-> sonarqube scanner ->path of scanner


freestyle project : -> git add details such as url and credentials->b


